* Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project
@ 2021-12-07  1:01 Jon Mason
  2021-12-07 16:36 ` [yocto] " Michael Opdenacker
                   ` (3 more replies)
  0 siblings, 4 replies; 5+ messages in thread
From: Jon Mason @ 2021-12-07  1:01 UTC (permalink / raw)
  To: yocto, Patches and discussions about the oe-core layer,
	OpenEmbedded Devel List

This email is a follow-up from the session held on Friday at the
OpenEmbedded Developer's Virtual Meeting (see
https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/OEDVM_Nov_2021)

The session was not recorded, but the slides can be found at
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/146ueVVTMeA8JI43wqv5kFmdYEygqqmfGH0z1VRL2bDA/edit?usp=sharing

The outcome from the discussion was that inclusive language changes
are something that we want to accomplish in the kirkstone release
timeframe (with an exception for the "master" branch name, which will
be handled at a future date).

There has already been a pass at collecting the needed changes at
https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language

This is not as simple as a find/replace of offending words.  There is
a desire for backward compatibility or to provide some kind of "you
want X, which is now Y" (which complicates things).

The intention of this email is to see who is interested in helping
out.  Once we know how many people are available and what time frames,
we can plan out a roadmap.  So, please email me (or respond to this
thread publicly) and I'll add you to the list.  There will then be a
follow-up zoom call in the next week or so to plan out the roadmap.

We will document the roadmap and everything else on the YP wiki page above.

Questions and comments are welcome, but not interested in debating the
necessity or timeframe of this task.  It has already been decided.

Thanks,
Jon


^ permalink raw reply	[flat|nested] 5+ messages in thread
* Re: [yocto] Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project
  2021-12-07  1:01 Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project Jon Mason
@ 2021-12-07 16:36 ` Michael Opdenacker
  2021-12-08 16:15 ` [oe] " Scott Murray
                   ` (2 subsequent siblings)
  3 siblings, 0 replies; 5+ messages in thread
From: Michael Opdenacker @ 2021-12-07 16:36 UTC (permalink / raw)
  To: Jon Mason, yocto,
	Patches and discussions about the oe-core layer,
	OpenEmbedded Devel List

Hi Jon,

On 12/7/21 2:01 AM, Jon Mason wrote:
> This email is a follow-up from the session held on Friday at the
> OpenEmbedded Developer's Virtual Meeting (see
> https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/OEDVM_Nov_2021)
>
> The session was not recorded, but the slides can be found at
> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/146ueVVTMeA8JI43wqv5kFmdYEygqqmfGH0z1VRL2bDA/edit?usp=sharing
>
> The outcome from the discussion was that inclusive language changes
> are something that we want to accomplish in the kirkstone release
> timeframe (with an exception for the "master" branch name, which will
> be handled at a future date).
>
> There has already been a pass at collecting the needed changes at
> https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language
>
> This is not as simple as a find/replace of offending words.  There is
> a desire for backward compatibility or to provide some kind of "you
> want X, which is now Y" (which complicates things).
>
> The intention of this email is to see who is interested in helping
> out.  Once we know how many people are available and what time frames,
> we can plan out a roadmap.  So, please email me (or respond to this
> thread publicly) and I'll add you to the list.  There will then be a
> follow-up zoom call in the next week or so to plan out the roadmap.
>
> We will document the roadmap and everything else on the YP wiki page above.
>
> Questions and comments are welcome, but not interested in debating the
> necessity or timeframe of this task.  It has already been decided.


Definitely interested. I had already started contributing to
https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language. Count me in.
Thanks
Michael.

-- 
Michael Opdenacker, Bootlin
Embedded Linux and Kernel engineering
https://bootlin.com



^ permalink raw reply	[flat|nested] 5+ messages in thread
* Re: [oe] Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project
  2021-12-07  1:01 Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project Jon Mason
  2021-12-07 16:36 ` [yocto] " Michael Opdenacker
@ 2021-12-08 16:15 ` Scott Murray
  2021-12-11 15:06 ` akuster808
  2021-12-15 19:14 ` Saul Wold
  3 siblings, 0 replies; 5+ messages in thread
From: Scott Murray @ 2021-12-08 16:15 UTC (permalink / raw)
  To: Jon Mason
  Cc: yocto, Patches and discussions about the oe-core layer,
	OpenEmbedded Devel List

On Mon, 6 Dec 2021, Jon Mason wrote:

> This email is a follow-up from the session held on Friday at the
> OpenEmbedded Developer's Virtual Meeting (see
> https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/OEDVM_Nov_2021)
>
> The session was not recorded, but the slides can be found at
> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/146ueVVTMeA8JI43wqv5kFmdYEygqqmfGH0z1VRL2bDA/edit?usp=sharing
>
> The outcome from the discussion was that inclusive language changes
> are something that we want to accomplish in the kirkstone release
> timeframe (with an exception for the "master" branch name, which will
> be handled at a future date).
>
> There has already been a pass at collecting the needed changes at
> https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language
>
> This is not as simple as a find/replace of offending words.  There is
> a desire for backward compatibility or to provide some kind of "you
> want X, which is now Y" (which complicates things).
>
> The intention of this email is to see who is interested in helping
> out.  Once we know how many people are available and what time frames,
> we can plan out a roadmap.  So, please email me (or respond to this
> thread publicly) and I'll add you to the list.  There will then be a
> follow-up zoom call in the next week or so to plan out the roadmap.
>
> We will document the roadmap and everything else on the YP wiki page above.
>
> Questions and comments are welcome, but not interested in debating the
> necessity or timeframe of this task.  It has already been decided.

I am also interested in helping move this forward, please count me in.

Scott



^ permalink raw reply	[flat|nested] 5+ messages in thread
* Re: [oe] Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project
  2021-12-07  1:01 Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project Jon Mason
  2021-12-07 16:36 ` [yocto] " Michael Opdenacker
  2021-12-08 16:15 ` [oe] " Scott Murray
@ 2021-12-11 15:06 ` akuster808
  2021-12-15 19:14 ` Saul Wold
  3 siblings, 0 replies; 5+ messages in thread
From: akuster808 @ 2021-12-11 15:06 UTC (permalink / raw)
  To: Jon Mason, yocto,
	Patches and discussions about the oe-core layer,
	OpenEmbedded Devel List



On 12/6/21 5:01 PM, Jon Mason wrote:
> This email is a follow-up from the session held on Friday at the
> OpenEmbedded Developer's Virtual Meeting (see
> https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/OEDVM_Nov_2021)
>
> The session was not recorded, but the slides can be found at
> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/146ueVVTMeA8JI43wqv5kFmdYEygqqmfGH0z1VRL2bDA/edit?usp=sharing
>
> The outcome from the discussion was that inclusive language changes
> are something that we want to accomplish in the kirkstone release
> timeframe (with an exception for the "master" branch name, which will
> be handled at a future date).
>
> There has already been a pass at collecting the needed changes at
> https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language
>
> This is not as simple as a find/replace of offending words.  There is
> a desire for backward compatibility or to provide some kind of "you
> want X, which is now Y" (which complicates things).
>
> The intention of this email is to see who is interested in helping
> out.  Once we know how many people are available and what time frames,
> we can plan out a roadmap.  So, please email me (or respond to this
> thread publicly) and I'll add you to the list.  There will then be a
> follow-up zoom call in the next week or so to plan out the roadmap.
>
> We will document the roadmap and everything else on the YP wiki page above.
>
> Questions and comments are welcome, but not interested in debating the
> necessity or timeframe of this task.  It has already been decided.

Thanks for driving this.

please add me to the list.

-armin
>
> Thanks,
> Jon
>
> -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
> Links: You receive all messages sent to this group.
> View/Reply Online (#94219): https://lists.openembedded.org/g/openembedded-devel/message/94219
> Mute This Topic: https://lists.openembedded.org/mt/87555753/3616698
> Group Owner: openembedded-devel+owner@lists.openembedded.org
> Unsubscribe: https://lists.openembedded.org/g/openembedded-devel/unsub [akuster808@gmail.com]
> -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
>



^ permalink raw reply	[flat|nested] 5+ messages in thread
* Re: [oe] Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project
  2021-12-07  1:01 Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project Jon Mason
                   ` (2 preceding siblings ...)
  2021-12-11 15:06 ` akuster808
@ 2021-12-15 19:14 ` Saul Wold
  3 siblings, 0 replies; 5+ messages in thread
From: Saul Wold @ 2021-12-15 19:14 UTC (permalink / raw)
  To: Jon Mason, yocto,
	Patches and discussions about the oe-core layer,
	OpenEmbedded Devel List



On 12/6/21 17:01, Jon Mason wrote:
> This email is a follow-up from the session held on Friday at the
> OpenEmbedded Developer's Virtual Meeting (see
> https://www.openembedded.org/wiki/OEDVM_Nov_2021)
> 
> The session was not recorded, but the slides can be found at
> https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/146ueVVTMeA8JI43wqv5kFmdYEygqqmfGH0z1VRL2bDA/edit?usp=sharing
> 
> The outcome from the discussion was that inclusive language changes
> are something that we want to accomplish in the kirkstone release
> timeframe (with an exception for the "master" branch name, which will
> be handled at a future date).
> 
> There has already been a pass at collecting the needed changes at
> https://wiki.yoctoproject.org/wiki/Inclusive_language
> 
> This is not as simple as a find/replace of offending words.  There is
> a desire for backward compatibility or to provide some kind of "you
> want X, which is now Y" (which complicates things).
> 
> The intention of this email is to see who is interested in helping
> out.  Once we know how many people are available and what time frames,
> we can plan out a roadmap.  So, please email me (or respond to this
> thread publicly) and I'll add you to the list.  There will then be a
> follow-up zoom call in the next week or so to plan out the roadmap.
> 
I am interested in helping out also.

Another low hanging item might be changing the names of patches that 
include the offensive terms like the following (which I will add to the 
wiki:
meta-openembedded/meta-oe/recipes-graphics/lxdm/lxdm/0001-lxdm.conf.in-blacklist-root-for-release-images.patch
meta-openembedded/meta-oe/recipes-support/multipath-tools/files/0022-RH-Remove-the-property-blacklist-exception-builtin.patch
oe-core/meta/recipes-extended/tcp-wrappers/tcp-wrappers-7.6/11_tcpd_blacklist.patch
oe-core/meta/recipes-core/udev/udev-extraconf/mount.blacklist
Can't really rename this one or we rename it in oe-core but it gets 
named back on the installed system.

meta-secure-core/meta-integrity/files/ima_signing_blacklist
Same as above

meta-secure-core/meta-efi-secure-boot/recipes-bsp/efitools/efitools/Fix-the-wrong-dependency-for-blacklist.esl.patch

We would have to re-generate the patches to have the subject match the 
fixed language.

Sau!


> We will document the roadmap and everything else on the YP wiki page above.
> 
> Questions and comments are welcome, but not interested in debating the
> necessity or timeframe of this task.  It has already been decided.
> 
> Thanks,
> Jon
> 
> 
> 
> -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
> Links: You receive all messages sent to this group.
> View/Reply Online (#94219): https://lists.openembedded.org/g/openembedded-devel/message/94219
> Mute This Topic: https://lists.openembedded.org/mt/87555753/4950653
> Group Owner: openembedded-devel+owner@lists.openembedded.org
> Unsubscribe: https://lists.openembedded.org/g/openembedded-devel/unsub [Saul.Wold@windriver.com]
> -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
> 



^ permalink raw reply	[flat|nested] 5+ messages in thread
end of thread, other threads:[~2021-12-16  1:44 UTC | newest]

Thread overview: 5+ messages (download: mbox.gz / follow: Atom feed)
-- links below jump to the message on this page --
2021-12-07  1:01 Help with Inclusive Language in OpenEmbedded/Yocto Project Jon Mason
2021-12-07 16:36 ` [yocto] " Michael Opdenacker
2021-12-08 16:15 ` [oe] " Scott Murray
2021-12-11 15:06 ` akuster808
2021-12-15 19:14 ` Saul Wold

